P8105_hw3_nab2194.md, before:

Homework 3
================

``` r
library(tidyverse)
```

    ## ── Attaching packages ──────────────────────────────────── tidyverse 1.3.0 ──

    ## ✓ ggplot2 3.3.2     ✓ purrr   0.3.4
    ## ✓ tibble  3.0.3     ✓ dplyr   1.0.2
    ## ✓ tidyr   1.1.2     ✓ stringr 1.4.0
    ## ✓ readr   1.3.1     ✓ forcats 0.5.0

    ## ── Conflicts ─────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse_conflicts() ──
    ## x dplyr::filter() masks stats::filter()
    ## x dplyr::lag()    masks stats::lag()

``` r
library(p8105.datasets)

knitr::opts_chunk$set(
  fig.width = 6,
  fig.asp = .6,
  out.width = "90%"
)

theme_set(theme_minimal() + theme(legend.position = "bottom"))

options(
  ggplot2.continuous.colour = "viridis",
  ggplot2.continuous.fill = "viridis"
)

scale_colour_discrete = scale_colour_viridis_d
scale_fill_discrete = scale_fill_viridis_d
```

## Problem 1

``` r
data("instacart") 
```

This dataset contains 1384617 rows (representing the total number of
observations) and 15 columns.

Observations are the level of items in order by user. There are
user/order variables – user ID, order ID, order day, and order hour.
There are also item variables – name, aisle, department, and some
numeric codes. FINISH UP THIS TEXT

*How many aisles are there, and from which aisles are the most items
ordered?*

``` r
instacart %>% 
  count(aisle) %>% 
  arrange(desc(n))
```

    ## # A tibble: 134 x 2
    ##    aisle                              n
    ##    <chr>                          <int>
    ##  1 fresh vegetables              150609
    ##  2 fresh fruits                  150473
    ##  3 packaged vegetables fruits     78493
    ##  4 yogurt                         55240
    ##  5 packaged cheese                41699
    ##  6 water seltzer sparkling water  36617
    ##  7 milk                           32644
    ##  8 chips pretzels                 31269
    ##  9 soy lactosefree                26240
    ## 10 bread                          23635
    ## # … with 124 more rows

There are 134 aisles in this dataset. Among these, most items are
ordered from the ‘fresh vegetables,’ ‘fresh fruits,’ and ‘packaged
vegetables fruits’ aisles. Instacart shoppers are a healthy bunch\!

*Making a plot*

``` r
instacart %>% 
  count(aisle) %>% 
  filter(n > 10000) %>% 
  mutate(
    aisle = factor(aisle),
    aisle = fct_reorder(aisle, n)
  ) %>% 
  ggplot(aes(x = aisle, y = n)) + 
  geom_point() + 
  theme(axis.text.x = element_text(angle = 90, vjust = 0.5, hjust = 1))
```

<img src="P8105_hw3_nab2194_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-4-1.png" width="90%" />

*Making a table with most popular products in baking ingredients, dog
food care, and packaged vegetables/fruit*

``` r
instacart %>% 
  filter(aisle %in% c("baking ingredients", "dog food care", "packaged vegetables fruits")) %>% 
  group_by(aisle) %>% 
  count(product_name) %>% 
  mutate(rank = min_rank(desc(n))) %>% 
  filter(rank < 4) %>% 
  arrange(desc(n)) %>% 
  knitr:: kable()
```

| aisle                      | product\_name                                 |    n | rank |
| :------------------------- | :-------------------------------------------- | ---: | ---: |
| packaged vegetables fruits | Organic Baby Spinach                          | 9784 |    1 |
| packaged vegetables fruits | Organic Raspberries                           | 5546 |    2 |
| packaged vegetables fruits | Organic Blueberries                           | 4966 |    3 |
| baking ingredients         | Light Brown Sugar                             |  499 |    1 |
| baking ingredients         | Pure Baking Soda                              |  387 |    2 |
| baking ingredients         | Cane Sugar                                    |  336 |    3 |
| dog food care              | Snack Sticks Chicken & Rice Recipe Dog Treats |   30 |    1 |
| dog food care              | Organix Chicken & Brown Rice Recipe           |   28 |    2 |
| dog food care              | Small Dog Biscuits                            |   26 |    3 |

*Table with mean hour of day at which Pink Lady Apples/Coffee ice cream
are ordered*

``` r
instacart %>% 
  filter(product_name %in% c("Pink Lady Apples", "Coffee Ice Cream")) %>% 
  group_by(product_name, order_dow) %>% 
  summarize(mean_hour = mean(order_hour_of_day)) %>% 
  pivot_wider(
    names_from = order_dow,
    values_from = mean_hour
  ) %>% 
  knitr :: kable()
```

    ## `summarise()` regrouping output by 'product_name' (override with `.groups` argument)

| product\_name    |        0 |        1 |        2 |        3 |        4 |        5 |        6 |
| :--------------- | -------: | -------: | -------: | -------: | -------: | -------: | -------: |
| Coffee Ice Cream | 13.77419 | 14.31579 | 15.38095 | 15.31818 | 15.21739 | 12.26316 | 13.83333 |
| Pink Lady Apples | 13.44118 | 11.36000 | 11.70213 | 14.25000 | 11.55172 | 12.78431 | 11.93750 |

## Problem 2

``` r
accel = 
  read_csv("./data/accel_data.csv") %>% view()
```

    ## Parsed with column specification:
    ## cols(
    ##   .default = col_double(),
    ##   day = col_character()
    ## )

    ## See spec(...) for full column specifications.

``` r
accel_longer = 
  pivot_longer(
  accel,
  activity.1:activity.1440,
  names_to = "minute_of_day",
  names_prefix = "activity.",
  values_to = "activity_count"
  ) %>% view

accel_wkdy = 
mutate(accel_longer,
       weekday = case_when(
         day %in% c("Monday","Tuesday","Wednesday","Thursday","Friday") ~ "weekday",
         day %in% c("Saturday","Sunday") ~ "weekend"
       ))

accel_wkdy %>%  
  mutate(day = as.factor(day)) %>% 
  mutate(minute_of_day = as.double(minute_of_day)) %>% 
  mutate(weekday = as.factor(weekday)) %>% 
  relocate(weekday, .after = day) %>% view
```

This dataset provides information on the activity counts for one man
over every minute of a 5-week period. After tidying the data, the
resulting dataframe has 50400 rows and 6 columns. The dataframe includes
the week number, an ID for the day number,

Commit message:

reordered the factor variable (day)

P8105_hw3_nab2194.md, after:

Homework 3
================

``` r
library(tidyverse)
```

    ## ── Attaching packages ─────────────────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse 1.3.0 ──

    ## ✓ ggplot2 3.3.2     ✓ purrr   0.3.4
    ## ✓ tibble  3.0.3     ✓ dplyr   1.0.2
    ## ✓ tidyr   1.1.2     ✓ stringr 1.4.0
    ## ✓ readr   1.3.1     ✓ forcats 0.5.0

    ## ── Conflicts ────────────────────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse_conflicts() ──
    ## x dplyr::filter() masks stats::filter()
    ## x dplyr::lag()    masks stats::lag()

``` r
library(p8105.datasets)

knitr::opts_chunk$set(
  fig.width = 6,
  fig.asp = .6,
  out.width = "90%"
)

theme_set(theme_minimal() + theme(legend.position = "bottom"))

options(
  ggplot2.continuous.colour = "viridis",
  ggplot2.continuous.fill = "viridis"
)

scale_colour_discrete = scale_colour_viridis_d
scale_fill_discrete = scale_fill_viridis_d
```

## Problem 1

``` r
data("instacart") 
```

This dataset contains 1384617 rows (representing the total number of
observations) and 15 columns.

Observations are the level of items in order by user. There are
user/order variables – user ID, order ID, order day, and order hour.
There are also item variables – name, aisle, department, and some
numeric codes. FINISH UP THIS TEXT

*How many aisles are there, and from which aisles are the most items
ordered?*

``` r
instacart %>% 
  count(aisle) %>% 
  arrange(desc(n))
```

    ## # A tibble: 134 x 2
    ##    aisle                              n
    ##    <chr>                          <int>
    ##  1 fresh vegetables              150609
    ##  2 fresh fruits                  150473
    ##  3 packaged vegetables fruits     78493
    ##  4 yogurt                         55240
    ##  5 packaged cheese                41699
    ##  6 water seltzer sparkling water  36617
    ##  7 milk                           32644
    ##  8 chips pretzels                 31269
    ##  9 soy lactosefree                26240
    ## 10 bread                          23635
    ## # … with 124 more rows

There are 134 aisles in this dataset. Among these, most items are
ordered from the ‘fresh vegetables,’ ‘fresh fruits,’ and ‘packaged
vegetables fruits’ aisles. Instacart shoppers are a healthy bunch\!

*Making a plot*

``` r
instacart %>% 
  count(aisle) %>% 
  filter(n > 10000) %>% 
  mutate(
    aisle = factor(aisle),
    aisle = fct_reorder(aisle, n)
  ) %>% 
  ggplot(aes(x = aisle, y = n)) + 
  geom_point() + 
  theme(axis.text.x = element_text(angle = 90, vjust = 0.5, hjust = 1))
```

<img src="P8105_hw3_nab2194_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-4-1.png" width="90%" />

*Making a table with most popular products in baking ingredients, dog
food care, and packaged vegetables/fruit*

``` r
instacart %>% 
  filter(aisle %in% c("baking ingredients", "dog food care", "packaged vegetables fruits")) %>% 
  group_by(aisle) %>% 
  count(product_name) %>% 
  mutate(rank = min_rank(desc(n))) %>% 
  filter(rank < 4) %>% 
  arrange(desc(n)) %>% 
  knitr:: kable()
```

| aisle                      | product\_name                                 |    n | rank |
| :------------------------- | :-------------------------------------------- | ---: | ---: |
| packaged vegetables fruits | Organic Baby Spinach                          | 9784 |    1 |
| packaged vegetables fruits | Organic Raspberries                           | 5546 |    2 |
| packaged vegetables fruits | Organic Blueberries                           | 4966 |    3 |
| baking ingredients         | Light Brown Sugar                             |  499 |    1 |
| baking ingredients         | Pure Baking Soda                              |  387 |    2 |
| baking ingredients         | Cane Sugar                                    |  336 |    3 |
| dog food care              | Snack Sticks Chicken & Rice Recipe Dog Treats |   30 |    1 |
| dog food care              | Organix Chicken & Brown Rice Recipe           |   28 |    2 |
| dog food care              | Small Dog Biscuits                            |   26 |    3 |

*Table with mean hour of day at which Pink Lady Apples/Coffee ice cream
are ordered*

``` r
instacart %>% 
  filter(product_name %in% c("Pink Lady Apples", "Coffee Ice Cream")) %>% 
  group_by(product_name, order_dow) %>% 
  summarize(mean_hour = mean(order_hour_of_day)) %>% 
  pivot_wider(
    names_from = order_dow,
    values_from = mean_hour
  ) %>% 
  knitr :: kable()
```

    ## `summarise()` regrouping output by 'product_name' (override with `.groups` argument)

| product\_name    |        0 |        1 |        2 |        3 |        4 |        5 |        6 |
| :--------------- | -------: | -------: | -------: | -------: | -------: | -------: | -------: |
| Coffee Ice Cream | 13.77419 | 14.31579 | 15.38095 | 15.31818 | 15.21739 | 12.26316 | 13.83333 |
| Pink Lady Apples | 13.44118 | 11.36000 | 11.70213 | 14.25000 | 11.55172 | 12.78431 | 11.93750 |

## Problem 2

``` r
accel = 
  read_csv("./data/accel_data.csv") 
```

    ## Parsed with column specification:
    ## cols(
    ##   .default = col_double(),
    ##   day = col_character()
    ## )

    ## See spec(...) for full column specifications.

``` r
accel_longer = 
  pivot_longer(
  accel,
  activity.1:activity.1440,
  names_to = "minute_of_day",
  names_prefix = "activity.",
  values_to = "activity_count"
  ) 

accel_wkdy = 
mutate(accel_longer,
       weekday_end = case_when(
         day == "Monday" ~ "weekday",
         day == "Tuesday" ~ "weekday",
         day == "Wednesday" ~ "weekday",
         day == "Thursday" ~ "weekday",
         day == "Friday" ~ "weekday",
         day == "Saturday" ~ "weekend",
         day == "Sunday" ~ "weekend"
         )) %>% 
  mutate(weekday_end = as.factor(weekday_end)) %>% 
  relocate("week","day_id","day","weekday_end", "minute_of_day","activity_count") %>% 
  mutate(minute_of_day = as.double(minute_of_day)) %>% 
  mutate(day = as.factor(day)) %>%
  mutate(
  day = forcats::fct_relevel(day, "Sunday","Monday","Tuesday","Wednesday","Thursday","Friday","Saturday"))
```

This dataset provides information on the activity counts for one man
over every minute of a 5-week period. After tidying the data, the
resulting dataframe has 50400 rows and 6 columns. The dataframe includes
the week number, an ID for the day number, a binary variable referring
to whether the day is a weekday or a weekend (defined as
Saturday/Sunday), the minute of the day, and the activity count.

Creating a plot

## Problem 3
